README.md, before:

# post-disaster-comms

[![ssec](https://img.shields.io/badge/SSEC-Project-purple?logo=data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAA0AAAAOCAQAAABedl5ZAAAACXBIWXMAAAHKAAABygHMtnUxAAAAGXRFWHRTb2Z0d2FyZQB3d3cuaW5rc2NhcGUub3Jnm+48GgAAAMNJREFUGBltwcEqwwEcAOAfc1F2sNsOTqSlNUopSv5jW1YzHHYY/6YtLa1Jy4mbl3Bz8QIeyKM4fMaUxr4vZnEpjWnmLMSYCysxTcddhF25+EvJia5hhCudULAePyRalvUteXIfBgYxJufRuaKuprKsbDjVUrUj40FNQ11PTzEmrCmrevPhRcVQai8m1PRVvOPZgX2JttWYsGhD3atbHWcyUqX4oqDtJkJiJHUYv+R1JbaNHJmP/+Q1HLu2GbNoSm3Ft0+Y1YMdPSTSwQAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==&style=plastic)](https://ise.washington.edu/news/article/2024-01-14/building-community-resilience-2-million-nsf-grant-will-transform-disaster)
[![BSD License](https://badgen.net/badge/license/BSD-3-Clause/blue)](LICENSE)

This repository is a collection of resources for post-disaster communications. It is a work in progress and will be updated as the project progresses.

## Frontend Technology Stack

Flutter is an open-source UI software development kit created by Google.

This will be used for the mobile application development.

See [Official Documentation](https://flutter.dev/docs)

## Backend Technology Stack

Supabase is an open source Firebase alternative. It is a service that provides a Postgres database with a RESTful API and real-time capabilities. It is used as the backend for the project.

For this project, we will be utilizing the community supabase kubernetes helm chart.
The helm chart can be found in [supabase-community/supabase-kubernetes](https://github.com/supabase-community/supabase-kubernetes).

Deploying supabase via Kubernetes allows for a cloud agnostic deployment as long as a Kubernetes cluster is available.

See [Official Documentation](https://supabase.com/docs)

## Running locally

To run this app locally, follow these steps:

0. Install Pixi: https://github.com/prefix-dev/pixi?tab=readme-ov-file#installation
1. In the package's directory, run the following to install both `frontend` and `backend` tools

   ```console
   # Install frontend tools
   pixi run -e frontend install-tools
   # install backend tools
   pixi run -e backend install-tools
   ```

### Backend

1. Run the Docker daemon

2. Set environment variables with your Docker username and password

   ```console
   export DOCKER_USERNAME=<your docker username>
   export DOCKER_PASSWORD=<your docker password>
   ```

3. Set up the infrastructure. You should have a Supabase instance running at http://localhost

   ```console
   pixi run -e backend setup-infra
   ```

4. Optional: If you want to add sample entries in your local Supabase Instance. 
   Run the following command in a new terminal session.
   
   ```console
   pixi run populate-sample-entries
   ```
   
5. Run the API server locally by running the following command in a new terminal session.  
   Note: the argument `fast-api-server-dev` in the command below runs the server in editable mode, where each change in 
   the source file triggers the restart of the fastapi local server.  
   For production: replace `fast-api-server-dev` with `fast-api-server-run`.

   ```console
   pixi run fast-api-server-dev
   ```  
   
   At this point your backend is now ready to go! Now off to frontend


### Frontend

1. Install [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)
2. Run Android Studio, which will help you install the Android toolchain. Be sure to include all required components
   1. Android SDK Platform
   1. Android SDK Command-line tools
   1. Android SDK Build-Tools
   1. Android SDK Platform-Tools
   1. Android Emulator

3. Accept the Android licenses (or check that you have already done so) and get frontend dependencies
   by running the command below. *There may be an issue indicated with XCode -- that is okay and can be ignored*
   
   ```console
   pixi run -e frontend setup-infra
   ```

4. Run Flutter. This will open the Android app in a new Chrome window
   
   ```console
   pixi run -e frontend flutter-run
   ```

   At this point your frontend is now ready to go! You are all set.

## Running in the cloud

### Where's the cloud stuff?

It's in `./deployment/cloud` and we're using [OpenTofu](https://opentofu.org/)

### Credentials

For now, contact Niki for least-privileged IAM user credentials. These will be used to assume the necessary roles. ([TODO as part of this issue](https://github.com/uw-ssec/post-disaster-comms/issues/61): find a better way to distribute these)

This user will assume the necessary roles to get things going

### Deploying infrastructure changes

The following commands will allow you to do what you gotta do to update and deploy the infrastructure

#### Preview the changes to your infrastructure

```
pixi run cloud-plan
```

#### Deploy your infrastructure changes

```
pixi run cloud-deploy
```

#### Destroy all cloud infra (WARNING: ask if you think you gotta do this)

```
pixi run cloud-destroy
```

### Run the development server

Right now, this server does nothing. TODO: fix that as part of these issues ([1](https://github.com/uw-ssec/post-disaster-comms/issues/38) and [2](https://github.com/uw-ssec/post-disaster-comms/issues/40))

```
pixi run cloud-server-run
```

### Stop the development server

The server will stop daily at 01:00 UTC (6PM PDT/5PM PST), but if you wanna be a good citizen and stop it when you're done, run the following

```
pixi run cloud-server-stop
```

### Access the development server when it's running

This command uses [AWS's Session Manager](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/session-manager.html) to access the development server without needing to distribute ssh keys. Assuming you have access to the IAM roles needed for everything else related to the cloud here, this command should just work!

```
pixi run cloud-server-access
```


## Contributing

You can contribute to this project by creating issues or forking this repository and opening a pull request.

Please review our [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) before contributing.

## License

[BSD 3-Clause License](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

Initial encryption of values.cloud.yaml -- PGP key only

README.md, after:

# post-disaster-comms

[![ssec](https://img.shields.io/badge/SSEC-Project-purple?logo=data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAA0AAAAOCAQAAABedl5ZAAAACXBIWXMAAAHKAAABygHMtnUxAAAAGXRFWHRTb2Z0d2FyZQB3d3cuaW5rc2NhcGUub3Jnm+48GgAAAMNJREFUGBltwcEqwwEcAOAfc1F2sNsOTqSlNUopSv5jW1YzHHYY/6YtLa1Jy4mbl3Bz8QIeyKM4fMaUxr4vZnEpjWnmLMSYCysxTcddhF25+EvJia5hhCudULAePyRalvUteXIfBgYxJufRuaKuprKsbDjVUrUj40FNQ11PTzEmrCmrevPhRcVQai8m1PRVvOPZgX2JttWYsGhD3atbHWcyUqX4oqDtJkJiJHUYv+R1JbaNHJmP/+Q1HLu2GbNoSm3Ft0+Y1YMdPSTSwQAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==&style=plastic)](https://ise.washington.edu/news/article/2024-01-14/building-community-resilience-2-million-nsf-grant-will-transform-disaster)
[![BSD License](https://badgen.net/badge/license/BSD-3-Clause/blue)](LICENSE)

This repository is a collection of resources for post-disaster communications. It is a work in progress and will be updated as the project progresses.

## Frontend Technology Stack

Flutter is an open-source UI software development kit created by Google.

This will be used for the mobile application development.

See [Official Documentation](https://flutter.dev/docs)

## Backend Technology Stack

Supabase is an open source Firebase alternative. It is a service that provides a Postgres database with a RESTful API and real-time capabilities. It is used as the backend for the project.

For this project, we will be utilizing the community supabase kubernetes helm chart.
The helm chart can be found in [supabase-community/supabase-kubernetes](https://github.com/supabase-community/supabase-kubernetes).

Deploying supabase via Kubernetes allows for a cloud agnostic deployment as long as a Kubernetes cluster is available.

See [Official Documentation](https://supabase.com/docs)

## Running locally

To run this app locally, follow these steps:

0. Install Pixi: https://github.com/prefix-dev/pixi?tab=readme-ov-file#installation
1. In the package's directory, run the following to install both `frontend` and `backend` tools

   ```console
   # Install frontend tools
   pixi run -e frontend install-tools
   # install backend tools
   pixi run -e backend install-tools
   ```

### Backend

1. Run the Docker daemon

2. Set environment variables with your Docker username and password

   ```console
   export DOCKER_USERNAME=<your docker username>
   export DOCKER_PASSWORD=<your docker password>
   ```

3. Set up the infrastructure. You should have a Supabase instance running at http://localhost

   ```console
   pixi run -e backend setup-infra
   ```

4. Optional: If you want to add sample entries in your local Supabase Instance. 
   Run the following command in a new terminal session.
   
   ```console
   pixi run populate-sample-entries
   ```
   
5. Run the API server locally by running the following command in a new terminal session.  
   Note: the argument `fast-api-server-dev` in the command below runs the server in editable mode, where each change in 
   the source file triggers the restart of the fastapi local server.  
   For production: replace `fast-api-server-dev` with `fast-api-server-run`.

   ```console
   pixi run fast-api-server-dev
   ```  
   
   At this point your backend is now ready to go! Now off to frontend


### Frontend

1. Install [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)
2. Run Android Studio, which will help you install the Android toolchain. Be sure to include all required components
   1. Android SDK Platform
   1. Android SDK Command-line tools
   1. Android SDK Build-Tools
   1. Android SDK Platform-Tools
   1. Android Emulator

3. Accept the Android licenses (or check that you have already done so) and get frontend dependencies
   by running the command below. *There may be an issue indicated with XCode -- that is okay and can be ignored*
   
   ```console
   pixi run -e frontend setup-infra
   ```

4. Run Flutter. This will open the Android app in a new Chrome window
   
   ```console
   pixi run -e frontend flutter-run
   ```

   At this point your frontend is now ready to go! You are all set.

## Running in the cloud

### Where's the cloud stuff?

It's in `./deployment/cloud` and we're using [OpenTofu](https://opentofu.org/)

### Credentials

For now, contact Niki for least-privileged IAM user credentials. These will be used to assume the necessary roles. ([TODO as part of this issue](https://github.com/uw-ssec/post-disaster-comms/issues/61): find a better way to distribute these)

This user will assume the necessary roles to get things going

### Editing deployment/values.cloud.yaml

(Optional) To open the file with VSCode, run the following first

```
export EDITOR="code --wait"
```

Then run the following. Save and close the file when you're done editing for all of your new values to be re-encrypted.

```
pixi run edit-cloud-values
```

If you run into an issue like `gpg: decryption failed: Inappropriate ioctl for device`, run the following command and retry

```
export GPG_TTY=$(tty)
```

### Deploying infrastructure changes

The following commands will allow you to do what you gotta do to update and deploy the infrastructure

#### Preview the changes to your infrastructure

```
pixi run cloud-plan
```

#### Deploy your infrastructure changes

```
pixi run cloud-deploy
```

#### Destroy all cloud infra (WARNING: ask if you think you gotta do this)

```
pixi run cloud-destroy
```

### Run the development server

Right now, this server does nothing. TODO: fix that as part of these issues ([1](https://github.com/uw-ssec/post-disaster-comms/issues/38) and [2](https://github.com/uw-ssec/post-disaster-comms/issues/40))

```
pixi run cloud-server-run
```

### Stop the development server

The server will stop daily at 01:00 UTC (6PM PDT/5PM PST), but if you wanna be a good citizen and stop it when you're done, run the following

```
pixi run cloud-server-stop
```

### Access the development server when it's running

This command uses [AWS's Session Manager](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/session-manager.html) to access the development server without needing to distribute ssh keys. Assuming you have access to the IAM roles needed for everything else related to the cloud here, this command should just work!

```
pixi run cloud-server-access
```


## Contributing

You can contribute to this project by creating issues or forking this repository and opening a pull request.

Please review our [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) before contributing.

## License

[BSD 3-Clause License](./LICENSE)
